♪ ♪
[linda] okay, I'm putting
in a load of laundry,
So everybody smell yourself.
Are your pajamas okay
or are they funky?
-[sniffs] mine are okay.
-[gene and louise sniff]
Mine are better than tina's.
Mine kind of smell like soup,
so I'm good.
Okay then, I'm gonna do it.
You know the drill.
Nothing else on
but the tv, right?
-[kids] yes.
-Wait. Is the tree off?
-Bob, I'm starting the washer.
No toaster, no microwave,
-Okay?
-What?
-Did he say "yup?"
-[kids] uh-huh.
Lin? Linda?
Did you say you're starting
a wash? I hope not
-'cause I'm making toast.
-I couldn't hear you.
-Are you in the kitchen?
-No. I'm in the bathroom,
-But I'm making toast.
-[linda] you're "making it go"?
Good for you. I'm proud of you.
-[kids gasping]
-that's not good.
-Oh, crap.
-No! No!
Off tv bad!
The whole subpanel's fried.
This wiring is a disaster.
None of this is up to code.
You're lucky
just the panel blew.
Your whole house could have
been a christmas roast.
-Aw.
-Not in a good way.
Ah.
-Ah, well, uh,
as the landlord here,
I should tell you
that this all feels very judgy.
What's "code," really?
Just a way to be judgy.
-Who did this work?
-Well, uh, this was
a collaboration
Over the years with... Involving
many different talents.
Who can say who did what?
Is this dried blood?
Uh, it's ketchup.
Uh, our handyman
does repairs down here
And says he works better
when he's eating.
-He doesn't.
-Hm.
-Oh.
-Mm-hmm.
-I can fix it,
But you won't have power
for three or four days.
What?!
But christmas is in two days!
I know.
And I'm excited to be here.
We can't have no power
for christmas!
Your landlord should
put you up somewhere.
What, me?
Why is it always
the landlord's problem?
Ugh, fine.
Let's go and let him
do his precious up-to-code work.
Should the sign just say,
"electricity's out.
See you when we see you"?
That-that sounds wrong.
Well, you're in luck.
I can put you up at the lodge.
-The lodge?
-Yes. My family's
old hunting lodge.
We don't use it much.
It's a bit, uh, hunty lodgey.
My father bought it
when we were kids
So he'd have a place
to do his falconry.
-Falcon crest?
-Falconry. It's a-it's a--
-Oh.
-It's-it's a kind of hunting
with trained falcons.
He wasn't any good at it
and they usually flew away,
But we just kept
buying him more falcons.
It was nice, actually,
because he was hard to shop for.
Can you excuse us a sec?
Are we gonna spend christmas
in mr. Fischoeder's lodge?
Not be in our house?
For christmas?
It sounds sad and terrible.
I know, but power is good?
Why did mr. Fischoeder have
to call a real electrician?
Teddy could have
gotten us through christmas.
-Teddy did this.
-Don't blame him
Just 'cause he doesn't know
what he's doing.
(groans) can we bring
our christmas stuff?
And the tree?
Make it feel more like home?
Sure. Wait. The tree? How?
We-we already decorated it.
-I need the tree, bob.
-Uh, okay, okay.
-I need it.
-I got it.
-[clears throat]
Well, you seem very excited.
And I was thinking
of not standing here anymore.
So, can I call the caretaker
And tell him not to drive up
to the lodge tonight?
-The caretaker?
-Yes, old mr. Mccormick.
You'd be
doing me a favor, really,
If you'd spend
a few nights there.
I wouldn't have to
pay that crank
To lick the pipes
or whatever it is he does
To keep the heat
and water running.
-Lick the pipes?
-I don't know.
It's an old house, but we pay
old crotchety mccormick
To go up there,
and if you good folks go up,
You can lick the pipes and, uh,
I could save the five dollars.
Look at the tree, poor thing.
Is there any way
we can play it some music
Or a podcast or something?
-I don't think so.
-Okay, never mind.
We got the cooking stuff,
we got the stockings.
Oh, I forgot the deodorant.
Eh, that's okay.
Maybe, santa'll bring some.
-Yeah.
-Wait. Oh, crap!
How will santa know that we're
going to a different house?
Is there paperwork we
have to fill out or something?
He knows, honey.
They track our phones, I think.
-That sounds right.
-Yeah.
Okay, uh, so do we know that
for sure?
-Do we know that for sure?!
-Louise, it'll be fine.
We have to go. I want to try
And make it up the mountain
before dark.
[linda] okay.
Everyone, say, "bye, house."
[all]
bye, house.
[gasps]
uh, you, too, restaurant! Phew.
That was close.
We almost had to go back.
[bob]
oh, god. I'm not sure
The tires can handle this.
They're-they're pretty bald.
Look who's talking.
Yeah, aren't we supposed
to have chains or something?
Like cool chains
that connect to our wallets?
[bob]
oh, god. Oh, god. Oh, god.
[louise]
this is like a nightmare.
-[bob] I know.
I-I'm very scared,
but I'm being brave.
-No, dad. The santa thing.
-Oh.
I had very reasonable stuff
on my list,
And I was exactly
a reasonable amount of good,
So I was expecting
to run the table this year.
I was gonna get the whole list.
The whole list!
No screaming unless we're
tumbling off the cliff, please.
Louise, honey, calm down.
We'd all rather be home
for christmas in the place
Where we've spent
every christmas
Since you kids were born,
but we're not, and that's fine.
-It's fine.
-Guys, there's no way
Santa's gonna be able
to find us.
Do your phones
even work up here?
I'm pretty sure
santa's got, um, sleigh-dar.
Hit him up on linkedin.
[bob]
oh, I don't like that.
We gonna make it,
or is this the end?
Could go either way.
Dad, you said you wanted
to get there before dark.
-Yup.
-But it's dark.
-So we really got to hurry.
-[bob whimpers]
-dad's voice keeps
getting higher.
Kids, no talking to your father.
Close your eyes. Try to rest.
And if we end up upside down
in a ravine,
Go ahead
and eat your father and me.
[gene]
I call mom's legs!
-[louise] whoa.
-[gene] whoa.
-[tina] whoa.
-[bob] thank god we made it.
-[linda sighs]
[bob] I did that. I did it.
[linda] good driving, bobby.
Pretty much.
All right, everyone
grab something and bring it
Into mr. Fischoeder's old, dark,
not-too-scary, mountain mansion.
It's kind of cool looking.
And... We're alive.
I'm still just so happy
about that.
Once we turn on some lights
and start a fire
And bring in the decorations,
I bet it'll be really nice.
Yeah, I've had a box
of ornaments
On my lap for 90 miles.
-They'd better earn their keep.
-You're right, kids.
We'll christmas the hell
out of this place.
But, uh, let's do all
the decorating stuff tomorrow,
-Right?
-Oh, yeah.
Tonight, I'm only unpacking
The rudolph the red wine
reindeer glasses
And pouring us a glass of--
oh, my god!
-What?
-Where's the tree?!
-Oh my god.
Oh, my god. Oh, my god.
The tree must have fallen off
on the drive up here.
Oh, I knew we should have
put the tree on my lap somehow.
Or at least that thing
where you hold onto it
With one arm out the window.
Like dad did with my old
mattress before it blew off.
We should have had
a professional come tie it on.
Like a surgeon,
a-a tree surgeon or something.
Instead of us burger people.
-We did our best.
-That doesn't sound like us.
It was the road.
That bumpy, snowy, evil road.
Uh, okay, okay.
So it's... It fell off.
We'll just drive back down
and get it.
-Oh, no, no. No.
-Yes, bob. The tree!
Linda, it-it's a miracle
that we're here.
We shouldn't have driven
on that road
In this car with these tires,
and it's snowing.
Every moment,
the road is getting worse.
We-we can't drive back to town.
Oh! Bobby, I can't stand
thinking about our tree
Outside in the cold all alone.
It's fine. That's how a tree
spends its entire life.
-Well, that's just awful.
-I know.
-Awful.
-Yup. Come on,
let-let's go inside.
[whines]
Uh, I'll, uh,
I'll put this down
And, uh, feel
for a light switch.
Well, your father's gone.
He's never coming back.
I'd take out my phone if
I had one and use it as a light,
-But, you know.
-Tina not now.
-You won't let me get a phone...
-Shushies.
-Aah!
-Bad falcon!
This is kinda nice.
Looks like they updated
the kitchen at some point.
A guy could maybe
cook a christmas meal in here?
-[gene] guy fieri?
--Louise] chimney. Okay, check.
That's one thing
going for us, santa-wise.
And we can have
all our shareholder meetings
At this totally
normal-sized table,
-So that's good.
-Um, that's terrifying.
It's, uh, very falcony.
Why is it so big?
Oh, god,
I'll have to look at it
While I'm cooking, too.
Uh, I bet we'll all
get used to it,
And then we won't even
notice it anymore. Maybe?
Yeah, like dad's dead tooth.
-Or his dead toenail.
-They're not dead,
They're just struggling.
Well, should we figure out
where they put the beds
In this winter wonderland?
I call the room with
the fewest dead animals.
-What the heck is that?
-There's a little plaque.
It says "indoor funicular
By the argyle elevator and
mechanical amusements company."
I loved their first album,
but then
Stevie nicks left the band.
-Should we ride it?
-Let's see if we can
Figure out
how to work it. Oh.
Top or bottom.
-That's the eternal question.
-Okay.
Ready?
Here-here we go.
Everyone hold on to something
so you don't
Fall when it takes off.
[machine humming]
-Are we moving?
-No, it hasn't started yet.
Or wait. Has it?
Should we just get out
and take the stairs?
[gene]
gross.
I call top bunk!
Oh. No one else
is sleeping in here?
Hey, I'm in
the elmer fudd suite.
Fyi, I might have scary
dreams tonight. No reason.
Is everyone else's bed
the size of our kitchen?
What? No.
These beds are small.
-Did you say yours is big?
-Uh, no. Good night.
[bob] why would anyone
Put that painting
in a dining room?
-It'd look ridiculous
in the bathroom?
-[sighs]
You know what should
go right there? The tree.
It could look out
the window if it wants.
-And think about what it's done.
-God, there's weird stuff
On mr. Fischoeder's
caretaker's list.
"beat the rugs with the drapes
"while the curtains watch,
get mail from mailbox,
"burn mail,
brush teeth on bear head.
Never break eye contact."
hm.
Dad, stop talking about
the list.
The only list
that matters is santa's.
Here's a thought.
What if he finds you
By the smell of the cookies?
-Oh, my god, the cookies.
-Yeah, I know. I'm smart.
I forgot the flour
for the cookies.
What?
So no tree and no cookies?
We need to pull
this together, people.
Maybe mr. Fischoeder has flour?
I hope so, but I'm worried that
If it is there
it might be very old.
Or cocaine.
Also, louise,
I-I think I can still
make cookies for santa
-Without flour.
-Do you think santa's
gluten-free, dad?
-I--
-do you think santa's
gluten-free, dad?!
-Uh...
-Do you?!
I think santa's mostly gluten.
No flour, no cocaine,
but how about rum?
Ugh!
This is a disaster.
Look, we can at least
solve the tree problem.
We're surrounded
by christmas trees.
Let's just chop one down.
A different tree?
A stranger tree?
That we just met
in the forest somewhere?
-I-I guess we could do that.
-But our tree.
That we brought home.
That knows us and loves us.
Mom, a tree in the hand
is better than one in a ditch.
Oh, my god, poor tree
in a ditch. Ugh, okay, fine.
Fine, we can go look.
Well, the good news
is that axe seems pretty heavy,
So there's no way dad has
the upper body strength
To go full shining on us.
Yeah. Half shining at most.
No offense, dad.
I think I could shining
all of you if I had to.
Although I'm tired
because I didn't
Get enough sleep last night
on that little bed.
Oh, yeah,
those beds are so tiny.
-Uh, how-how about this one?
-Eh.
-Or this one's nice.
-Meh.
-Okay. How about this guy, huh?
-Eh...
It's just, none of these trees
have what our tree has:
That effortless charm and wit.
That perfect bushiness, but
without being cocky about it.
It was a little cocky.
Okay, fine.
Do it.
That one.
So, I guess I just start
Chopping at the trunky part?
No technical terms.
Dumb it down for us.
All right, maybe like, uh...
Wait. Do trees die
when you cut them down?
-Yeah, tina.
-Right.
-[louise] uh...
-[tina groaning]
-[gene whimpering]
-[linda] eh...
-Forget it, forget it,
-yeah.
-Stop, stop, stop.
-Phew.
-Oh, thank god.
Bob, I want to go down and
-Look for our tree.
-[bob groans]
The sun is out.
The road is clear.
And we need flour.
You stay with the kids.
I'll just zip down
to that little market
At the bottom of the mountain
And be back quicker
than you can lick a pipe.
Oh, right, we haven't
licked the pipes yet.
-This is a good plan.
-But, lin,
We don't even know
where it fell off.
Sure we do.
Somewhere between here
And the bottom of the mountain.
She's hot on its trail.
Even if you find the tree,
How-how will you get it
in the car?
I'll use my superhuman
christmas magic mom strength.
Yeah. Or she'll just
close the door on it
And drag it alongside the car
Like she does
with her purse sometimes.
And her skirts.
And if that doesn't work,
I'll come get you
And we'll both do it.
I'm gonna save christmas.
Oh, wait.
I don't have my keys.
Or my wallet.
And I better
go inside and pee first.
Uh, let's all go in.
But maybe mr. Axe stays outside?
Oh, yeah. Mr. Axe
is gonna go back in the shed
With his friend mr. Machete.
And I think
I saw a hand grenade,
So nobody go in there.
[linda]
don't worry, tree,
I'm coming for you.
Dang it, I wish
I gave you a flare gun.
Okay, I got to stay positive.
Can't give up.
Christmas miracle time.
Here we go.
I'm gonna find you.
Oh, crap, I'm at
the bottom of the mountain.
[all grunting]
Louise, you don't seem
that into this.
You're not aiming for my glasses
like you usually do.
Yeah, I know, sorry. It's just,
look at that big field.
I guess we're calling anything
a field these days.
You think if we spelled
something out with fire,
Santa could see it from
his satellite or whatever?
-Come on.
-Oh, yeah, that could work.
But maybe not fire,
because it's fire. Um,
-What about sticks?
-And stones?
No, wait-- our bones.
At least I got the stupid flour.
Oh, tree, I give up.
I'm never gonna find you.
Oh, my god, there you are!
Our tree. It's our tree!
I never gave up on you.
Whoa. Okay, don't die.
Don't die. Don't die.
I can't wait to tell bob
I found our tree. And he thought
I couldn't do it.
I'll only say "I told you so,"
like, four times.
Maybe five.
Why isn't it ringing?
Oh, no bars.
It's kind of steep,
but it's safe, right?
Safe-ish. Whoa.
Whoa! Whoa. Whoa...
Okay, okay.
Oh, boy.
Okay, here we go.
Here we go.
This is better.
Oh, and butt's getting
pretty wet.
Butt's getting wet.
[shouting]
Whoa. [shouting]
[grunts]
And that's how you do that.
Hey, lin, uh,
I haven't heard from you.
Uh, hope you're okay and, uh,
Not, uh,
running out of gas somewhere
Or being torn apart
by anything in the woods.
Not-not that you would
get torn apart.
You're-you're a strong person.
I definitely would.
Between the two of us,
I would be the one to get torn--
Forget it. Call me.
[louise]
[sighs] boy, this is taking
a long time.
Do you think "bel" kind of
gets the point across?
[gene]
as long as he doesn't think
it's bell biv devoe.
-[tina] or harry belafonte.
-[gene] or mr. Belvedere.
Oh, god.
Okay, okay. We got to finish it.
But we're running out
of big branches.
We could use mom and dad's
clothes. Or gene?
I am good at lying down.
[groaning]
Aah! Whoa.
No! Oh, come on.
Why does dragging
a christmas tree
Up a snowy mountain
have to be so hard?
Okay, I don't love that.
Oh, sun's gone.
Ooh, that is cold.
That is very cold.
Can you die of cold?
No, right?
That's only in the movies.
[bob]
[grunts] get up there.
Oh... [grunts] come on.
What are you doing?
Uh, I'm trying to make it
so that I don't have to
Look at this painting anymore.
-[grunts]
-you did it. Good job.
Thanks. I-I'm just glad
it finally w-- mm.
-Oh, sorry.
-Yeah. What are you doing?
We're looking for stuff
to spell out
A giant message to santa.
You don't love the clothes
you brought with you, right?
I don't love them,
but I want to keep them inside.
Like your feelings.
Can't you just use branches
Since we're in the woods?
We found some, but it's snowy,
And they're deep down,
And our tiny hands got cold.
So we're actually gonna
need this. Thank you.
-No, no, no, I need that.
-I need this.
-No.
-I need this!
-Louise.
-Fine.
[grunts] uh... Uh-oh.
So you took care of that.
Uh, it turns out
I'm not good at--
-No, louise, no, no.
-What?
-No. Put it down.
-Okay...
-What about...
-Put it down.
Ugh! Do you hate presents?
Aah! I'm all right.
Ah, ha, ha, tina!
You beautiful beast.
Dad, are these allowed outside?
-Any objections?
-Mm.
Gene, come grab
these spelling sticks.
If I wanted to carry skis,
I would have gone with ken
to breckenridge.
[panting]
oh, please.
Please let me make it
to the car.
Oh, I can't wait
to put that heater on.
I love that heater so much.
Almost there.
So tired.
Body giving out.
Spirit giving out.
Bladder holding on. Mostly.
Hang on, tree.
I'm gonna put ornaments
all over you.
Whoa...!
Oh! Oh, thank god.
Thank god--
no! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Oh! [shouting]
Oh!
No...!
-[bird screeches]
-oh, hush.
Hey, lin, uh, me again.
Please don't be dead.
That's my one request.
Oh, and flour.
But mostly don't be dead
Because I don't know
how I'd go on without you.
And also, you're better
at wrapping presents than me.
-Okay, goodbye.
-Dad, go to the window.
Look out-look out the window.
Go, go, go to the window, dad.
Okay. "belcher."
looks good.
I hope you're excited
to bring all that
Back in the house later.
That sounds like
a caretaker's responsibility.
So, okay,
I'm gonna take a walk,
Mostly to, uh, you know,
get some air, enjoy nature.
But also to see
if your mom crashed the car
And is freezing to death
somewhere.
-[kids] oh.
-She has been gone a while.
I just assumed she and the tree
ran off together
And she'd send for the children
once they're settled.
Honestly, guys, it's a long shot
mom would be able
To find the tree.
I'm sorry.
But I-I'm gonna
see if I can find her.
But mom is in a car.
You are on your--
No offense-- very slow legs.
Well, I-I need to do something.
Your-your mom might be stuck.
Is this partly
to get away from the painting?
No. A little.
I really don't like it.
It'll be okay.
I'll be back soon.
Uh, with your mom.
Who's fine.
And the car.
Both in one piece.
Hopefully. Totally alive.
Both of them.
Uh, well, not the ca--
it's fine.
[grunting]
Whoa! Oh, okay.
Okay, we got a problem.
Oh! I don't know
how to tell you this.
I'm not gonna be able
to bring you up, tree.
[sniffles]
huh.
I could tell you that
I'm gonna go get bob
And a rope,
and we'll be back for you,
But here's the thing.
I don't think
that's a good idea.
I love you, tree,
but if I come back with bob
And we both die,
the kids'll be all alone,
And I don't think they'll put
themselves to bed
At a reasonable hour.
You know?
And I'm kind of missing
christmas eve over here.
I know I picked you
out of all the other trees,
And you were the one,
you really were.
[sniffles] but I got to
leave you here, my sweet baby.
Mama's got to go.
Here.
I know you like ornaments.
Eh. Eh. [sniffles]
There. [sniffles]
You look beautiful.
Okay.
Okay, I got to go now.
Nope, nope, you can't come.
You can't come.
I'm sorry. Sorry.
I'm sorry. Get off!
Get off! I'm sorry.
You look beautiful.
[grunting]
Is that linda?
Bob? Bob!
-Linda!
-What are you doing out here?
Uh, looking for you.
I left you a bunch of messages.
I didn't have any bars.
Were you looking for the tree
this whole time?
I found it.
-You did?
-Yeah.
We, uh, we got ourselves
into a little situation.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
You have a stick in your hair.
And snow in my pants
and in my underwear.
Everything's numb down there.
I'm not peeing, am I?
I-I don't think so.
Uh, but where-where's the tree?
Ugh.
The tree didn't make it, bob.
-Oh.
-Yep, yep.
She's gone. She's gone.
-Oh, I'm sorry, lin.
-Yeah.
-[bob] did you get the flour?
-Yes, I got the flour.
Geez, have some respect
for the dead, huh?
Look who got flour.
-Mom!
-Momala!
My genie beanie. Aw.
My teeny tina.
And my squeezy louisey.
-Dad's back, too.
-Good to see you, man.
I should have been here,
Spending the day
with my babies.
And I couldn't bring home
our christmas tree.
-I'm really sorry.
-That's okay.
-We made one.
-[gasps]
Oh, it's the best
christmas tree ever.
[louise]
yeah, 'cause where's santa
gonna put the presents, right?
I mean, we assumed
you were gonna get the tree,
-But just in case, tina said
we should make a backup.
-What?
I love it.
Mwah, mwah, mwah.
Sorry I've been
such a crumb bum
About coming here.
I just want to be
Wherever you guys are.
Mwah, mwah, mwah, mwah,
Mwah, mwah, mwah.
Christmas!
So you dug down in the snow
and found more branches?
God no. We borrowed some
from the santa signal
And then we just filled in
with some perfectly okay things
From the house that you said
were fine to take.
-[linda]
oh, you used the towels.
-[tina] all of them.
-We weren't gonna bathe, right?
-Why start now?
-[bob] mm.
And we made dad something, too.
-[bob] you covered it?
-[gene] we used wrapping paper
And the cheap tape mom buys,
so we may have to
Re-stick it a few times.
That looks so much better.
It's like they're excited
about opening that present.
Which is probably a dead bunny.
Okay, I'm gonna
go dig the snow out of my butt,
And then let's bake
some cookies!
I bet mrs. Claus
says the same thing every year.
[louise] all right, the ball's
in your court, santa.
The full list!
[santa] ♪ gluten, ho, ho, ho! ♪
♪ there's no disputin'
I love gluten ♪
♪ ah ♪
♪ gluten, ho, ho, ho! ♪
♪ you're darn tootin'
I love gluten ♪
♪ ho, ho! ♪
♪ you got celiac? ♪
♪ well, I got your back ♪
♪ but if I have
that snack attack ♪
♪ gimme that gluten,
ho, ho, ho! ♪
♪ there's no disputin'
I love gluten ♪
♪ ho, ho, ho! ♪
Merry christmas, everybody!
Where's my cookies?
I earned 'em.
Captioning sponsored by
bento box entertainment
and toyota.